add x.509 extension for CMW collections (#45)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-msg-wrap: draft-ietf-rats-msg-wrap.md

}
~~~

## CMW Collections {#cmw-coll}

Layered attesters and composite devices ({{Sections 3.2 and 3.3 of -rats-arch}}) generate evidence that consists of multiple parts.

For example, in data center servers, it is not uncommon for separate Attesting Environments (AE) to serve a subsection of the entire machine.
One AE might produce Evidence including Claims that represent what was booted on the main CPU, or on a SmartNIC plugged into a PCIe slot, or on the machine's GPU.

To address the composite Attester use case, this document defines a CMW "collection" as a container that holds several CMW items, each with a label that is unique within the scope of the collection.

The CMW collection ({{fig-cddl-collection}}) is defined as a CBOR map or JSON object with CMW values.
The position of a `cmw` entry in the `cmw-collection` is not significant.

> Instead, the labels identify a conceptual message that, in the case of a composite attester, should typically correspond to a component of a system.

Reviewer: "component of a system" seems too vague. Either a component is a AE or a TE. I assume you mean AE, but that is unspecified in text.

Reviewer 2: Probably should be 'target environment'

Author: Sure, that's great :-) but can we have the discussion about refining §3.4 in another PR, please?  This PR is just concerned with registering an OID for the CMW collection extension.

Author: Opened #46 to track this

> Labels can be strings or integers that serve as a mnemonic for different conceptual messages in the collection.

Reviewer: As TE cannot produce Conceptual Messages this would mean you always mean AE?

Reviewer 2: The ambiguous part is the meaning of 'correspond'. Either the label identifies the AE that produced the evidence, or it identifies the TEs that are the subject of claims collection.

Layered attesters and composite devices ({{Sections 3.2 and 3.3 of -rats-arch}}) generate evidence that consists of multiple parts.

For example, in data center servers, it is not uncommon for separate Attesting Environments (AE) to serve a subsection of the entire machine.

> One AE might produce Evidence including Claims that represent what was booted on the main CPU, or on a SmartNIC plugged into a PCIe slot, or on the machine's GPU.

Author: This has changed the meaning.  The *or* seem to present alternatives, but that's not the case: in the composite attester multiple AEs co-exist in parallel.

Author: I am going to revert [8c5dcc3](https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-msg-wrap/pull/45/commits/8c5dcc304cd21a6c6672c3c2ca47fa70f315ee29) and create a new issue where to wordsmith §3.4

Reviewer 2: OK

Author: Opened #46 to track this

   03                                 # unsigned(3)
~~~

> # Transporting CMW and CMW Collections in X.509 Messages {#x509}

Reviewer: :+1: reusing this section for CMW in CSR

> There are cases where CMW and CMW collection payloads need to be transported in PKIX messages, for example in Certificate Signing Requests (CSR) {{-csr-a}}, or in X.509 Certificates and Certificate revocation lists (CRL) {{DICE-arch}}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are cases where CMW and CMW collection payloads need to be transported in PKIX messages, for example in Certificate Signing Requests (CSRs) {{-csr-a}}, or in X.509 Certificates and Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs) {{DICE-arch}}.
```

Reviewer 2: +1

> For CMW, Section 6.1.8 of {{DICE-arch}} defines the ConceptualMessageWrapper format and the associated extension object identifier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For CMW, Section 6.1.8 of {{DICE-arch}} already defines the ConceptualMessageWrapper format and the associated object identifier.
```

This section specifies the CMWCollection extension to carry CMW collection objects.

The CMWCollection extension MAY be included in X.509 Certificates, CRLs {{-pkix}}, and CSRs.

The CMWCollection extension MUST be identified by the following object identifier:

~~~asn.1
id-pe-cmw-collection  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
        { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
          security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-pe(1) TBD }
~~~

This extension MUST NOT be marked critical.

The CMWCollection extension MUST have the following syntax:

~~~asn.1
CMWCollection ::= OCTET STRING
~~~

The CMWCollection MUST contain the JSON or CBOR serialization of a CMW collection object.

## ASN.1 Module {#asn1-x509}

This section provides an ASN.1 module {{X.680}} for the CMWCollection extension, following the conventions established in {{RFC5912}} and {{RFC6268}}.

~~~asn.1

> CMWCollectionExtn

Reviewer 2: `CMWCollectionExtn` doesn't appear to be consumed by anything. Why is it needed?

Author: This is the name of the ASN.1 module.

It's the name it'll be given when it lands in the [IANA registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/smi-numbers/smi-numbers.xhtml#smi-numbers-1.3.6.1.5.5.7.0).

We are slaves to X.680 :)

  { iso(1) identified-organization(3) dod(6) internet(1)
    security(5) mechanisms(5) pkix(7) id-mod(0)
    id-mod-cmw-collection-extn(TBD) }

DEFINITIONS IMPLICIT TAGS ::=
BEGIN

IMPORTS
  EXTENSION

>   FROM PKIX-CommonTypes-2009  -- RFC 5912

Reviewer 2: This appears to be boilerplate. Should this be explained better? Seems to leave the reader guessing at its significance.

Author: That's how the PKIX registration machinery is set up.
